Git - What is Git?
Git is a version control system(VCS - tool) which help developers to keep logs and history of each task accomplished and keep a track of changes
by maintaining some unique id's called as commit for each entry logged.

Github: It is a cloud clone or host for all our git commits maintained in some uniques set of properties named as repositories and branches.
 --changed by branch 6

Git :
Tools present locally to keep track of changes.
Present on single system.
Generally used by the developer using that particular system to make changes in source code and keep track of those.


 vs 
 Github:
 It is cloud based hosting environment which keeps and manages git repositories.
 Present over the internet.
 Generally used by a community or orgainsation to help developers keeping a track of work at common place.
 Main use of Github is in collaboration and maintaining an application from start till deployment.
 
How we can connect/colloborate Git with Github:
There are measure 2 ways in which we can connect local Git with remote Github: 
1) Through HTTP clones or remote adding : we use our creds or setup key to authenticate each time when we try to push something to github.
2) SSh clonning: we globally set our ssh creds and keys which sets up over user as global user and we don't need to authenticate each commit.

We learned two measure ways to create or clone repositories on github:
If it exists - we clone via either http clone or ssh clone.
You clone that existing project to local.

If no repo is there:
we create a new repository with unique name and than add it to our local git as a remote. Below are the steps:
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/siddhardh-dev/github-notes.git
git push -u origin main
 --branch 6 changes

How to contribute to open-source on github:
fork: we can fork publically available projects or repositories into our github and than make desired changes or fixing bugs and raising a 
pull request against the same repo to owner.
Forking is basically creating a local copy of exising project or repositories.


Pushing to remote and Raising PR:
git add .
git commit -m "bug 399 fixed"
git push origin main<branch name>

We discussed how to create or checkout to new branch also discussed in which scenarios we create new branches:

git checkout -b <branch name>
git add .
git commit -m "added"
git push remote/origin <branch name>


Raising PR: A pull request is a notification to repository owner that someone has asked to merge his/her branch to your branch. He further gets
 choice of merging or reject the PR based upon the conditions and requirements of project by verifyin the changes.

Git is a version control system that allows developers to track changes in their code over time, enabling collaboration and efficient management of code versions. It works locally on your machine, keeping a record of the project history and supporting features like branching and merging.

Tracking changes: ,maintain a history of code modifications.
Branching and merging: Developers can create separate branches to work on features and later merge them.
Collaboration: Teams can work together efficiently by pushing and pulling changes.

GitHub, on the other hand, is a cloud-based platform that hosts Git repositories and provides tools for collaboration. It allows multiple developers to share, review, and contribute to projects. GitHub offers additional features such as pull requests, issues, actions for CI/CD, and more, making it a popular choice for remote collaboration on code projects.

Remote repository: stores code online for easy access and backup.
Collaboration: Allows multiple developers to contribute via pull requests and code reviews.
